breathe come on you've got this you're
running along the east coast
about to set a new personal best a few
seconds later
your breathing gets real heavy that's
weird you're a trained athlete
you stop to rest and notice a whole
bunch of people crowding onto the beach
as you get closer you start wondering if
you're dreaming
thousands of sea creatures are swimming
ashore dolphins
sharks whales fish you've never seen
them so
up close before in the water it's
perfectly clear
completely transparent rescue boats with
science equipment float on the water
several cars arrive at the beach and a
whole group of official looking people
get out
you ask one of them what's going on they
tell you the oceans suddenly run out of
oxygen
it normally gets into the ocean one of
two ways when air brushes over the ocean
surface
and through photosynthesis grass trees
plants they all absorb carbon dioxide
that
stuff we breathe out they convert it
into oxygen using the sun's energy
that's photosynthesis the ocean gets its
portion of oxygen from algae
microorganisms and plankton floating in
the upper layers of the water
they release a tremendous amount of
oxygen back into the water
which helps keep all marine life going
no oxygen no more algae no algae no more
oxygen
it's a closed loop of disaster that's
why the water's so clear
thousands of fish are swimming closer to
land trying to get the oxygen that's
trapped on the surface
beaches are closed it's a mad house even
the monsters of the deep showed up
huge squid angler fish and humongous
crabs
thanks to the clear water you can see it
all millions of fish
squabbling splashing around creating
real chaos
it's not just the fish that are in
trouble since the ocean
ran out of oxygen it adapted it started
pulling more air from the land and
taking its oxygen
that's why you suddenly couldn't breathe
as deeply
you rush home time to pack you live in a
city with very little vegetation
and right by the beach it's time to make
the move away from the water
maybe to a city that's closer to a
forest or a jungle
that's where the oxygen is while you're
packing
you hear on tv that oxygen has
disappeared from all the oceans and seas
deserts are getting even more lifeless
the namib desert is on the coast of the
atlantic which also touches the sahara
these deserts get almost all their
oxygen from ocean water
since there's almost no plants around
and when it's hot out there's less
oxygen in the air anyway
triple problem that's something you
never thought you'd see on tv
scientists with oxygen tanks walking
through the desert
well i guess here's not so bad as you
head out for a short walk
you don't feel the lack of oxygen yet
but something's happening all over town
people are stressed out a lot of people
are packing up their cars and leaving
there's a huge traffic jam on the
highway you're not going to be able to
leave the city anytime soon anyway
night is coming that's the time when
plants and trees stop making oxygen
the air starts getting even heavier
the next morning you managed to leave
town you drive through forests
fields grass-covered mountains and
finally
breathe deeply people aren't just
leaving coastal areas because they're
less
oxygen the food supply is drying up
fishing is
basically over which for some cities is
a total disaster
beach cities empty out and the only way
out is to drive
you can't get away by boat unless you
have an oxygen tank on board
you're speeding away from the coast when
you come to a small town
traffic there is terrible and you get
stuck again
these towns just weren't designed for so
many people
traffic stocking enough food schools
jobs
it's going to take a while for these
small towns to adapt
land prices are going crazy you can buy
beachfront property for almost nothing
but farmland suddenly worth millions
people start investing like crazy in
anything eco-friendly unemployment
starts going through the roof
luckily you've got a bit saved up but
even here
miles from shore you still feel a lack
of oxygen
and carbon dioxide levels are going up
uh-oh
before all this ocean plants and
microbes processed co2
and turned it into oxygen now it's
accumulating in the atmosphere
people are getting more tired they're
feeling down
grumpy but the plants all love the co2
they grow bigger and generate more
oxygen but even with
every plant working overtime it's still
not enough to bring balance back to the
planet
home plants start to get very expensive
people use them to make their homes
easier to live in it's great the plants
take the co2 out of the air
and fill their rooms with oxygen for a
while it looks like humanity is going to
be okay
then winter comes the sun shines less
and less
plants don't get enough energy house
plants shrivel up
and trees shed their leaves
one day you're out on a walk and notice
something strange in people's behavior
they move slowly some are just standing
there staring at nothing
you see a young girl standing at a bus
stop then
she just walks away then she comes back
and goes away again she can't decide
what to do
wait where were you going you realize
that you forgot why you left the house
in the first place
lack of oxygen can affect your brain
people's memory and attention span take
a huge hit
and it becomes really hard to think
clearly and make rational decisions
as soon as people understand what's
happening they get scared
when you get scared you breathe harder
now humans need even more oxygen
you're afraid to leave home looking out
the window
you see a lot of people staring at the
houses on your side of the street
their brains gone all foggy they can't
remember which house is theirs
the next few weeks are rough but then a
solution appears
to learn how to control their breathing
use less oxygen
and overcome anxiety and stress people
start to get serious about breathing
techniques and meditation
now every day you meditate for two hours
track your breathing and become more
aware of the present moment
over time it becomes a habit anxiety
from lack of oxygen is gone
now you're just grateful for whatever
oxygen is still here
and that you're still breathing at all
once enough people have adapted to this
new reality they start to ask themselves
why do we run away from our problems
instead of solving them
and just like that it begins people
return to the big empty cities
they break up paved roads and plant
trees and bushes there instead
everything becomes a garden roof gardens
vertical gardens
street gardens open mall gardens
everything gets a green makeover
regular cars get switched out for
electric ones most polluting factories
get shut down
carbon dioxide levels drop way down but
it's still not enough
scientists even try pumping liquid
oxygen into the ocean
then they really hit the jackpot they
design and grow new types of
photoplankton and seaweed
that can pump nutrients back into the
ocean and kick-start the photosynthesis
cycle again
fish get put into special artificial
ponds to help them get used to having
less oxygen around
once they've adapted they're put back
into the ocean
people are rebuilding roads but greener
every city street has
trees patches of grass hanging gardens
and plenty of shade
plants are still growing fast since
there's still so much co2
but people don't try to control the
growth of their plants so much anymore
buildings get covered in vines flowers
get bigger
cities start to merge with their
surroundings forests and jungles give
cities tons of cool fresh air
the planet is turning more and more
green and people start to change too
running a bit late
now you can leave your home through an
upstairs window just climb down that
handy tree branch
some companies build whole offices on
trees
city air is clean now and smells like
thousands of flowers the ocean's also
taking on a new life
new unknown creatures appear in the
waters creatures that no longer need
oxygen